[draft/wip] Migrate beyla documentation for OBI (#7295)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/zero-code/obi/configure/export-modes.md

---
title: Configure Beyla export modes
menuTitle: Export modes
description:
  Configure Beyla to export data directly to an OTLP endpoint or through Alloy.
weight: 1
keywords:
  - Beyla
  - eBPF
aliases:
  - /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-applications/beyla/configure/export-modes/
---

# Configure Beyla export modes

> 
> Beyla exports data in Alloy or Direct mode.
> 
> ![Beyla architecture alloy vs direct](https://grafana.com/media/docs/grafana-cloud/beyla/alloy-vs-direct.png)
> 
> _Beyla running in Alloy mode on the left and Direct mode on the right._
> 
> ## Direct mode

Reviewer: Only direct mode is supported.

```suggestion
```

Grafana Cloud.

### Configure Alloy pipeline

First, install and configure [Grafana Alloy](/docs/alloy/). Configure the
[Alloy](/docs/alloy/) pipeline and specify the following nodes:

![Beyla nodes](https://grafana.com/media/docs/grafana-cloud/beyla/nodes-2.png)

Download the example
[River configuration file](https://github.com/grafana/beyla/blob/main/docs/sources/configure/resources/alloy-config.river).

Create an **OpenTelemetry receiver** endpoint for the auto-instrumentation tool
to forward metrics and traces. Add this entry to the Alloy configuration file:

```alloy
otelcol.receiver.otlp "default" {
  grpc {}
  http {}

  output {
    metrics = [otelcol.processor.batch.default.input]
    traces = [otelcol.processor.batch.default.input]
  }
}
```

This enables Alloy to receive OpenTelemetry events via GRPC and HTTP. Alloy
forwards the data to the batch processor. The batch processor accumulate the
data and forwards it to exporters:

```alloy
otelcol.processor.batch "default" {
  output {
    metrics = [otelcol.exporter.prometheus.default.input]
    traces  = [otelcol.exporter.otlp.tempo.input]
  }
}

> ```
> 
> Export either metrics, traces, or both. To export a single data type, omit the
> `metrics` or `traces` lines in the node definitions and skip the related
> exporters.
> 
> Alloy exports metrics in **Prometheus** format to [Grafana Mimir](/oss/mimir/).
> The configuration uses basic authentication. The Alloy configuration uses values
> set in environment variables:
> 
> ```alloy
> otelcol.exporter.prometheus "default" {
>     forward_to = [prometheus.remote_write.mimir.receiver]
> }
> 
> prometheus.remote_write "mimir" {
>   endpoint {
>     url = "https://" + env("MIMIR_ENDPOINT") + "/api/prom/push"
>     basic_auth {
>       username = env("MIMIR_USER")
>       password = env("GRAFANA_API_KEY")
>     }
>   }
> }
> ```
> 
> Set authentication environment variables and run Alloy:
> 
> ```sh
> export MIMIR_USER=734432
> export MIMIR_ENDPOINT=prometheus-prod-01-eu-west-0.grafana.net
> export GRAFANA_API_KEY=VHJhbGFyw60gcXVlIHRlIHbD....=
> ```
> 
> Finally, set up a [Grafana Tempo](/oss/tempo/) exporter and endpoint. The Alloy
> configuration uses values set in environment variables:
> 
> ```alloy
> otelcol.exporter.otlp "tempo" {
>     client {
>         endpoint = env("TEMPO_ENDPOINT")
>         auth     = otelcol.auth.basic.creds.handler
>     }
> }
> 
> otelcol.auth.basic "creds" {
>     username = env("TEMPO_USER")
>     password = env("GRAFANA_API_KEY")
> }
> ```
> 
> Note that the `TEMPO_ENDPOINT` and `TEMPO_USER` values are different from
> `MIMIR_ENDPOINT` and `MIMIR_USER`.
> 
> Run Alloy with a named configuration file:
> 
> ```sh
> grafana-alloy run alloy-config.river
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

### Configure and run Beyla

> This tutorial assumes Beyla and Alloy are running natively on the same host, so
> there is no need to secure the traffic nor provide authentication in the Alloy
> OTLP receiver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial assumes Beyla and OTEL Collector are running natively on the same host, so
there is no need to secure the traffic nor provide authentication in the OTEL Collector
OTLP receiver.
```

Install [OpenTelemetry eBPF Instrumentation](../../setup/) and download the
example
[configuration file](https://github.com/grafana/beyla/blob/main/docs/sources/configure/resources/instrumenter-config.yml).

First, specify the executable to instrument. For a service executable running on
port `443`, add the `open_port` property to the YAML document:

```yaml
discovery:
  instrument:
    - open_ports: 443
```

> Next, specify where the traces and the metrics are sent. If Alloy is running on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, specify where the traces and the metrics are sent. If the OTEL collector is running on
```
